ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

GitHub issues are for bugs / installation problems / feature requests.  
For general support from the community, see [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/tensorflow).
To make bugs and feature requests more easy to find and organize, we close issues that are deemed
out of scope for GitHub Issues and point people to StackOverflow.

For bugs or installation issues, please provide the following information.
The more information you provide, the more easily we will be able to offer
help and advice.

### Environment info
Operating System:

Installed version of CUDA and cuDNN: 
(please attach the output of `ls -l /path/to/cuda/lib/libcud*`):

If installed from binary pip package, provide:

1. Which pip package you installed.
2. The output from `python -c "import tensorflow; print(tensorflow.__version__)"`.

If installed from source, provide 

1. The commit hash (`git rev-parse HEAD`)
2. The output of `bazel version`

### Steps to reproduce
1.
2.
3.

### What have you tried?
1.

### Logs or other output that would be helpful
(If logs are large, please upload as attachment).

Commit message:

Add some more info in ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, some text cleanup (#4065)
Clarifies what kind of issues should be reported and what we will close, asks people to try searching on the web for similar issues first, asks for a minimal reproducible example.

ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

NOTE: Only file GitHub issues for bugs and feature requests.  All other topics will be closed.

For general support from the community, see [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/tensorflow).
To make bugs and feature requests more easy to find and organize, we close issues that are deemed
out of scope for GitHub Issues and point people to StackOverflow.

For bugs or installation issues, please provide the following information.
The more information you provide, the more easily we will be able to offer
help and advice.

### What related GitHub issues or StackOverflow threads have you found by searching the web for your problem?

### Environment info
Operating System:

Installed version of CUDA and cuDNN: 
(please attach the output of `ls -l /path/to/cuda/lib/libcud*`):

If installed from binary pip package, provide:

1. A link to the pip package you installed:
2. The output from `python -c "import tensorflow; print(tensorflow.__version__)"`.

If installed from source, provide 

1. The commit hash (`git rev-parse HEAD`)
2. The output of `bazel version`

### If possible, provide a minimal reproducible example (We usually don't have time to read hundreds of lines of your code)


### What other attempted solutions have you tried?


### Logs or other output that would be helpful
(If logs are large, please upload as attachment or provide link).
