tensorflow/g3doc/tutorials/monitors/index.md, before:

# Logging and Monitoring Basics with tf.contrib.learn

When training a model, it’s often valuable to track and evaluate progress in
real time. In this tutorial, you’ll learn how to use TensorFlow’s logging
capabilities and the `Monitor` API to audit the in-progress training of a neural
network classifier for categorizing irises. This tutorial builds on the code
developed in [tf.contrib.learn Quickstart](../tflearn/index.md)
so if you haven't yet completed that tutorial, you may want to explore it first,
especially if you're looking for an intro/refresher on tf.contrib.learn basics.

## Setup {#setup}

For this tutorial, you'll be building upon the following code from
[tf.contrib.learn Quickstart](../tflearn/index.md):

```python
from __future__ import absolute_import
from __future__ import division
from __future__ import print_function

import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np

# Data sets
IRIS_TRAINING = "iris_training.csv"
IRIS_TEST = "iris_test.csv"

# Load datasets.
training_set = tf.contrib.learn.datasets.base.load_csv(filename=IRIS_TRAINING,
                                                       target_dtype=np.int)
test_set = tf.contrib.learn.datasets.base.load_csv(filename=IRIS_TEST,
                                                   target_dtype=np.int)

# Build 3 layer DNN with 10, 20, 10 units respectively.
classifier = tf.contrib.learn.DNNClassifier(hidden_units=[10, 20, 10],
                                            n_classes=3,
                                            model_dir="/tmp/iris_model")

# Fit model.
classifier.fit(x=training_set.data,
               y=training_set.target,
               steps=2000)

# Evaluate accuracy.
accuracy_score = classifier.evaluate(x=test_set.data,
                                     y=test_set.target)["accuracy"]
print('Accuracy: {0:f}'.format(accuracy_score))

# Classify two new flower samples.
new_samples = np.array(
    [[6.4, 3.2, 4.5, 1.5], [5.8, 3.1, 5.0, 1.7]], dtype=float)
y = classifier.predict(new_samples)
print('Predictions: {}'.format(str(y)))
```

Copy the above code into a file, and download the corresponding [training]
(http://download.tensorflow.org/data/iris_training.csv) and [test]
(http://download.tensorflow.org/data/iris_test.csv) data sets to the same
directory.

In the following sections, you'll progressively make updates to the above code
to add logging and monitoring capabilities. Final code incorporating all updates
is [available for download here](../../../examples/tutorials/monitors/iris_monitors.py).

## Overview

The [tf.contrib.learn Quickstart tutorial](../tflearn/index.md)
walked through how to implement a neural net classifier to categorize Iris
examples into one of three species.

But when [the code](#setup) from this tutorial is run, the output contains no
logging tracking how model training is progressing&mdash;only the results 
of the `print` statements that were included:

```none
Accuracy: 0.933333
Predictions: [1 2]
```

Without any logging, model training feels like a bit of a black box; you can't
see what's happening as TensorFlow steps through gradient descent, get a sense
of whether the model is converging appropriately, or audit to determine whether
[early stopping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_stopping) might be
appropriate.

One way to address this problem would be to split model training into multiple
`fit` calls with smaller numbers of steps in order to evaluate accuracy more
progressively. However, this is not recommended practice, as it greatly slows down model
training. Fortunately, tf.contrib.learn offers another solution: a [Monitor API]
(../../api_docs/python/contrib.learn.monitors.md) designed to help you log metrics
and evaluate your model while training is in progress. In the following sections,
you'll learn how to enable logging in TensorFlow, set up a ValidationMonitor to do
streaming evaluations, and visualize your metrics using TensorBoard.

## Enabling Logging with TensorFlow

TensorFlow uses five different levels for log messages. In order of ascending
severity, they are `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN`, `ERROR`, and `FATAL`. When you
configure logging at any of these levels, TensorFlow will output all log
messages corresponding to that level and all levels of higher severity. For
example, if you set a logging level of `ERROR`, you'll get log output containing
`ERROR` and `FATAL` messages, and if you set a level of `DEBUG`, you'll get log
messages from all five levels.

By default, TensorFlow is configured at a logging level of `WARN`, but when
tracking model training, you'll want to adjust the level to `INFO`, which will
provide additional feedback as `fit` operations are in progress.

Add the following line to the beginning of your code (right after your
`import`s):

```python
tf.logging.set_verbosity(tf.logging.INFO)
```

Now when you run the code, you'll see additional log output like the following:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Training steps [0,200)
INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 0
INFO:tensorflow:Step 1: loss_1:0 = 1.48073
INFO:tensorflow:training step 100, loss = 0.19847 (0.001 sec/batch).
INFO:tensorflow:Step 101: loss_1:0 = 0.192693
INFO:tensorflow:Step 200: loss_1:0 = 0.0958682
INFO:tensorflow:training step 200, loss = 0.09587 (0.003 sec/batch).
```

With `INFO`-level logging, tf.contrib.learn automatically outputs [training-loss
metrics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_function) to stderr after every 100
steps.

## Configuring a ValidationMonitor for Streaming Evaluation

Logging training loss is helpful to get a sense whether your model is
converging, but what if you want further insight into what's happening during
training? tf.contrib.learn provides several high-level `Monitor`s you can attach
to your `fit` operations to further track metrics and/or debug lower-level
TensorFlow operations during model training, including:

| Monitor             | Description                                           |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `CaptureVariable`   | Saves a specified variable's values into a collection |
:                     : at every _n_ steps of training                        :
| `PrintTensor`       | Logs a specified tensor's values at every _n_ steps   |
:                     : of training                                           :
| `SummarySaver`      | Saves [`Summary`]                                     |
:                     : (../../api_docs/python/train.md#summary-operations) :
:                     : [protocol buffers]                                    :
:                     : (https\://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/)    :
:                     : for a given tensor using a [`SummaryWriter`]          :
:                     : (../../api_docs/python/train.md#SummaryWriter) at   :
:                     : every _n_ steps of training                           :
| `ValidationMonitor` | Logs a specified set of evaluation metrics at every   |
:                     : _n_ steps of training, and, if desired, implements    :
:                     : early stopping under certain conditions               :

### Evaluating Every *N* Steps

For the Iris neural network classifier, while logging training loss, you might
also want to simultaneously evaluate against test data to see how well the model
is generalizing. You can accomplish this by configuring a `ValidationMonitor`
with the test data (`test_set.data` and `test_set.target`), and setting how often to evaluate
with `every_n_steps`. The default value of `every_n_steps` is `100`; here, set
`every_n_steps` to `50` to evaluate after every 50 steps of model training:

```python
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50)
```

Place this code right before the line instantiating the `classifier`.

`ValidationMonitor`s rely on saved checkpoints to perform evaluation operations,
so you'll want to modify instantiation of the `classifier` to add a
[`RunConfig`]
(../../api_docs/python/contrib.learn.md#RunConfig)
that includes `save_checkpoints_secs`, which specifies how many seconds should
elapse between checkpoint saves during training. Because the Iris data set is
quite small, and thus trains quickly, it makes sense to set
`save_checkpoints_secs` to 1 (saving a checkpoint every second) to ensure a
sufficient number of checkpoints:

```python
classifier = tf.contrib.learn.DNNClassifier(hidden_units=[10, 20, 10],
                                            n_classes=3,
                                            model_dir="/tmp/iris_model",
                                            config=tf.contrib.learn.RunConfig(
                                                save_checkpoints_secs=1))
```

NOTE: The `model_dir` parameter specifies an explicit directory
(`/tmp/iris_model`) for model data to be stored; this directory path will be
easier to reference later on than an autogenerated one. Each time you run the
code, any existing data in `/tmp/iris_model` will be loaded, and model training
will continue where it left off in the last run (e.g., running the script twice
in succession will execute 4000 steps during training&mdash;2000 during each
`fit` operation). To start over model training from scratch, delete
`/tmp/iris_model` before running the code.

Finally, to attach your `validation_monitor`, update the `fit` call to include a
`monitors` param, which takes a list of all monitors to run during model
training:

```python
classifier.fit(x=training_set.data,
               y=training_set.target,
               steps=2000,
               monitors=[validation_monitor])
```

Now, when you rerun the code, you should see validation metrics in your log
output, e.g.:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 50): loss = 1.71139, global_step = 0, accuracy = 0.266667
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 300): loss = 0.0714158, global_step = 268, accuracy = 0.966667
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1750): loss = 0.0574449, global_step = 1729, accuracy = 0.966667
```

### Customizing the Evaluation Metrics

By default, if no evaluation metrics are specified, `ValidationMonitor` will log
both [loss](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_function) and accuracy, but you
can customize the list of metrics that will be run every 50 steps. The
[tf.contrib.metrics module](../../api_docs/python/contrib.metrics.md) provides
a variety of additional metric functions for classification models that you can
use out of the box with `ValidationMonitor`, including
`streaming_precision` and `streaming_recall`. To specify the exact metrics you'd
like to run in each evaluation pass, add a `metrics` param to the
`ValidationMonitor` constructor. `metrics` takes a dict of key/value pairs,
where each key is the name you'd like logged for the metric, and the
corresponding value is the function that calculates it.

Revise the `ValidationMonitor` constructor as follows to add logging for
precision and recall, in addition to accuracy (loss is always logged, and
doesn't need to be explicity specified):

```python
validation_metrics = {"accuracy": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_accuracy,
                      "precision": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_precision,
                      "recall": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_recall}
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50,
    metrics=validation_metrics)
```

Rerun the code again, and you should see precision and recall included in your
log output, e.g.:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 50): recall = 0.0, accuracy = 0.266667, global_step = 0, precision = 0.0, loss = 1.71139
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 150): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 132, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.157797
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1600): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 1589, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.055873
```

### Early Stopping with ValidationMonitor

Note that in the above log output, by step 150, the model has already achieved
precision and recall rates of 1.0. This raises the question as to whether model
training could benefit from [early stopping]
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_stopping).

In addition to logging eval metrics, `ValidationMonitor`s make it easy to
implement early stopping when specified conditions are met, via three params:

| Param                            | Description                               |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `early_stopping_metric`          | Metric that triggers early stopping       |
:                                  : (e.g., loss or accuracy) under conditions :
:                                  : specified in `early_stopping_rounds` and  :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize`. Default :
:                                  : is `"loss"`.                              :
| `early_stopping_metric_minimize` | `True` if desired model behavior is to    |
:                                  : minimize the value of                     :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric`; `False` if       :
:                                  : desired model behavior is to maximize the :
:                                  : value of `early_stopping_metric`. Default :
:                                  : is `True`.                                :
| `early_stopping_rounds`          | Sets a number of steps during which if    |
:                                  : the `early_stopping_metric` does not      :
:                                  : decrease (if                              :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize` is       :
:                                  : `True`) or increase (if                   :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize` is       :
:                                  : False), training will be stopped. Default :
:                                  : is `None`, which means early stopping     :
:                                  : will never occur.                         :

The following revision to the `ValidationMonitor` constructor specifies that if
loss (`early_stopping_metric="loss"`) does not decrease
(`early_stopping_metric_minimize=True`) over a period of 200 steps
(`early_stopping_rounds=200`), model training will stop immediately at that
point, and not complete the full 2000 steps specified in `fit`:

```python
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50,
    metrics=validation_metrics,
    early_stopping_metric="loss",
    early_stopping_metric_minimize=True,
    early_stopping_rounds=200)
```

Rerun the code to see if model training stops early:

```none
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1450): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 1431, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.0550445
INFO:tensorflow:Stopping. Best step: 1150 with loss = 0.0506100878119.
```

Indeed, here training stops at step 1450, indicating that for the past 200
steps, loss did not decrease, and that overall, step 1150 produced the smallest
loss value against the test data set. This suggests that additional calibration
of hyperparameters by decreasing the step count might further improve the model.

## Visualizing Log Data with TensorBoard

Reading through the log produced by `ValidationMonitor` provides plenty of raw
data on model performance during training, but it may also be helpful to see
visualizations of this data to get further insight into trends&mdash;for
example, how accuracy is changing over step count. You can use TensorBoard (a
separate program packaged with TensorFlow) to plot graphs like this by setting
the `logdir` command-line argument to the directory where you saved your model
training data (here, `/tmp/iris_model`). Run the following on your command line:

<pre><strong>$ tensorboard --logdir=/tmp/iris_model/</strong>
Starting TensorBoard 22 on port 6006
(You can navigate to http://0.0.0.0:6006)</pre>

Then load the provided URL (here, `http://0.0.0.0:6006`) in your browser. If you
click on the accuracy field, you'll see an image like the following, which shows
accuracy plotted against step count:

![Accuracy over step count in TensorBoard]
(../../images/validation_monitor_tensorboard_accuracy.png "Accuracy over step count in TensorBoard")

For more on using TensorBoard, see [TensorBoard: Visualizing Learning]
(../../how_tos/summaries_and_tensorboard/index.md)
and [TensorBoard: Graph Visualization](../../how_tos/graph_viz/index.md).

Commit message:

As of 2016-08-01, feature_columns argument is now required by DNNClassifier; updating tutorials/code accordingly. Change: 130785833

tensorflow/g3doc/tutorials/monitors/index.md, after:

# Logging and Monitoring Basics with tf.contrib.learn

When training a model, it’s often valuable to track and evaluate progress in
real time. In this tutorial, you’ll learn how to use TensorFlow’s logging
capabilities and the `Monitor` API to audit the in-progress training of a neural
network classifier for categorizing irises. This tutorial builds on the code
developed in [tf.contrib.learn Quickstart](../tflearn/index.md)
so if you haven't yet completed that tutorial, you may want to explore it first,
especially if you're looking for an intro/refresher on tf.contrib.learn basics.

## Setup {#setup}

For this tutorial, you'll be building upon the following code from
[tf.contrib.learn Quickstart](../tflearn/index.md):

```python
from __future__ import absolute_import
from __future__ import division
from __future__ import print_function

import tensorflow as tf
import numpy as np

# Data sets
IRIS_TRAINING = "iris_training.csv"
IRIS_TEST = "iris_test.csv"

# Load datasets.
training_set = tf.contrib.learn.datasets.base.load_csv(filename=IRIS_TRAINING,
                                                       target_dtype=np.int)
test_set = tf.contrib.learn.datasets.base.load_csv(filename=IRIS_TEST,
                                                   target_dtype=np.int)

# Specify that all features have real-value data
feature_columns = [tf.contrib.layers.real_valued_column("", dimension=4)]

# Build 3 layer DNN with 10, 20, 10 units respectively.
classifier = tf.contrib.learn.DNNClassifier(feature_columns=feature_columns,
                                            hidden_units=[10, 20, 10],
                                            n_classes=3,
                                            model_dir="/tmp/iris_model")

# Fit model.
classifier.fit(x=training_set.data,
               y=training_set.target,
               steps=2000)

# Evaluate accuracy.
accuracy_score = classifier.evaluate(x=test_set.data,
                                     y=test_set.target)["accuracy"]
print('Accuracy: {0:f}'.format(accuracy_score))

# Classify two new flower samples.
new_samples = np.array(
    [[6.4, 3.2, 4.5, 1.5], [5.8, 3.1, 5.0, 1.7]], dtype=float)
y = classifier.predict(new_samples)
print('Predictions: {}'.format(str(y)))
```

Copy the above code into a file, and download the corresponding [training]
(http://download.tensorflow.org/data/iris_training.csv) and [test]
(http://download.tensorflow.org/data/iris_test.csv) data sets to the same
directory.

In the following sections, you'll progressively make updates to the above code
to add logging and monitoring capabilities. Final code incorporating all updates
is [available for download here](https://www.tensorflow.org/code/tensorflow/examples/tutorials/monitors/iris_monitors.py).

## Overview

The [tf.contrib.learn Quickstart tutorial](../tflearn/index.md)
walked through how to implement a neural net classifier to categorize Iris
examples into one of three species.

But when [the code](#setup) from this tutorial is run, the output contains no
logging tracking how model training is progressing&mdash;only the results
of the `print` statements that were included:

```none
Accuracy: 0.933333
Predictions: [1 2]
```

Without any logging, model training feels like a bit of a black box; you can't
see what's happening as TensorFlow steps through gradient descent, get a sense
of whether the model is converging appropriately, or audit to determine whether
[early stopping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_stopping) might be
appropriate.

One way to address this problem would be to split model training into multiple
`fit` calls with smaller numbers of steps in order to evaluate accuracy more
progressively. However, this is not recommended practice, as it greatly slows down model
training. Fortunately, tf.contrib.learn offers another solution: a [Monitor API]
(../../api_docs/python/contrib.learn.monitors.md) designed to help you log metrics
and evaluate your model while training is in progress. In the following sections,
you'll learn how to enable logging in TensorFlow, set up a ValidationMonitor to do
streaming evaluations, and visualize your metrics using TensorBoard.

## Enabling Logging with TensorFlow

TensorFlow uses five different levels for log messages. In order of ascending
severity, they are `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN`, `ERROR`, and `FATAL`. When you
configure logging at any of these levels, TensorFlow will output all log
messages corresponding to that level and all levels of higher severity. For
example, if you set a logging level of `ERROR`, you'll get log output containing
`ERROR` and `FATAL` messages, and if you set a level of `DEBUG`, you'll get log
messages from all five levels.

By default, TensorFlow is configured at a logging level of `WARN`, but when
tracking model training, you'll want to adjust the level to `INFO`, which will
provide additional feedback as `fit` operations are in progress.

Add the following line to the beginning of your code (right after your
`import`s):

```python
tf.logging.set_verbosity(tf.logging.INFO)
```

Now when you run the code, you'll see additional log output like the following:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Training steps [0,200)
INFO:tensorflow:global_step/sec: 0
INFO:tensorflow:Step 1: loss_1:0 = 1.48073
INFO:tensorflow:training step 100, loss = 0.19847 (0.001 sec/batch).
INFO:tensorflow:Step 101: loss_1:0 = 0.192693
INFO:tensorflow:Step 200: loss_1:0 = 0.0958682
INFO:tensorflow:training step 200, loss = 0.09587 (0.003 sec/batch).
```

With `INFO`-level logging, tf.contrib.learn automatically outputs [training-loss
metrics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_function) to stderr after every 100
steps.

## Configuring a ValidationMonitor for Streaming Evaluation

Logging training loss is helpful to get a sense whether your model is
converging, but what if you want further insight into what's happening during
training? tf.contrib.learn provides several high-level `Monitor`s you can attach
to your `fit` operations to further track metrics and/or debug lower-level
TensorFlow operations during model training, including:

| Monitor             | Description                                           |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| `CaptureVariable`   | Saves a specified variable's values into a collection |
:                     : at every _n_ steps of training                        :
| `PrintTensor`       | Logs a specified tensor's values at every _n_ steps   |
:                     : of training                                           :
| `SummarySaver`      | Saves [`Summary`]                                     |
:                     : (../../api_docs/python/train.md#summary-operations) :
:                     : [protocol buffers]                                    :
:                     : (https\://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/)    :
:                     : for a given tensor using a [`SummaryWriter`]          :
:                     : (../../api_docs/python/train.md#SummaryWriter) at   :
:                     : every _n_ steps of training                           :
| `ValidationMonitor` | Logs a specified set of evaluation metrics at every   |
:                     : _n_ steps of training, and, if desired, implements    :
:                     : early stopping under certain conditions               :

### Evaluating Every *N* Steps

For the Iris neural network classifier, while logging training loss, you might
also want to simultaneously evaluate against test data to see how well the model
is generalizing. You can accomplish this by configuring a `ValidationMonitor`
with the test data (`test_set.data` and `test_set.target`), and setting how often to evaluate
with `every_n_steps`. The default value of `every_n_steps` is `100`; here, set
`every_n_steps` to `50` to evaluate after every 50 steps of model training:

```python
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50)
```

Place this code right before the line instantiating the `classifier`.

`ValidationMonitor`s rely on saved checkpoints to perform evaluation operations,
so you'll want to modify instantiation of the `classifier` to add a
[`RunConfig`]
(../../api_docs/python/contrib.learn.md#RunConfig)
that includes `save_checkpoints_secs`, which specifies how many seconds should
elapse between checkpoint saves during training. Because the Iris data set is
quite small, and thus trains quickly, it makes sense to set
`save_checkpoints_secs` to 1 (saving a checkpoint every second) to ensure a
sufficient number of checkpoints:

```python
classifier = tf.contrib.learn.DNNClassifier(feature_columns=feature_columns,
                                            hidden_units=[10, 20, 10],
                                            n_classes=3,
                                            model_dir="/tmp/iris_model",
                                            config=tf.contrib.learn.RunConfig(
                                                save_checkpoints_secs=1))
```

NOTE: The `model_dir` parameter specifies an explicit directory
(`/tmp/iris_model`) for model data to be stored; this directory path will be
easier to reference later on than an autogenerated one. Each time you run the
code, any existing data in `/tmp/iris_model` will be loaded, and model training
will continue where it left off in the last run (e.g., running the script twice
in succession will execute 4000 steps during training&mdash;2000 during each
`fit` operation). To start over model training from scratch, delete
`/tmp/iris_model` before running the code.

Finally, to attach your `validation_monitor`, update the `fit` call to include a
`monitors` param, which takes a list of all monitors to run during model
training:

```python
classifier.fit(x=training_set.data,
               y=training_set.target,
               steps=2000,
               monitors=[validation_monitor])
```

Now, when you rerun the code, you should see validation metrics in your log
output, e.g.:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 50): loss = 1.71139, global_step = 0, accuracy = 0.266667
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 300): loss = 0.0714158, global_step = 268, accuracy = 0.966667
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1750): loss = 0.0574449, global_step = 1729, accuracy = 0.966667
```

### Customizing the Evaluation Metrics

By default, if no evaluation metrics are specified, `ValidationMonitor` will log
both [loss](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loss_function) and accuracy, but you
can customize the list of metrics that will be run every 50 steps. The
[tf.contrib.metrics module](../../api_docs/python/contrib.metrics.md) provides
a variety of additional metric functions for classification models that you can
use out of the box with `ValidationMonitor`, including
`streaming_precision` and `streaming_recall`. To specify the exact metrics you'd
like to run in each evaluation pass, add a `metrics` param to the
`ValidationMonitor` constructor. `metrics` takes a dict of key/value pairs,
where each key is the name you'd like logged for the metric, and the
corresponding value is the function that calculates it.

Revise the `ValidationMonitor` constructor as follows to add logging for
precision and recall, in addition to accuracy (loss is always logged, and
doesn't need to be explicity specified):

```python
validation_metrics = {"accuracy": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_accuracy,
                      "precision": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_precision,
                      "recall": tf.contrib.metrics.streaming_recall}
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50,
    metrics=validation_metrics)
```

Rerun the code, and you should see precision and recall included in your
log output, e.g.:

```none
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 50): recall = 0.0, accuracy = 0.266667, global_step = 0, precision = 0.0, loss = 1.71139
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 150): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 132, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.157797
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1600): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 1589, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.055873
```

### Early Stopping with ValidationMonitor

Note that in the above log output, by step 150, the model has already achieved
precision and recall rates of 1.0. This raises the question as to whether model
training could benefit from [early stopping]
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_stopping).

In addition to logging eval metrics, `ValidationMonitor`s make it easy to
implement early stopping when specified conditions are met, via three params:

| Param                            | Description                               |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `early_stopping_metric`          | Metric that triggers early stopping       |
:                                  : (e.g., loss or accuracy) under conditions :
:                                  : specified in `early_stopping_rounds` and  :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize`. Default :
:                                  : is `"loss"`.                              :
| `early_stopping_metric_minimize` | `True` if desired model behavior is to    |
:                                  : minimize the value of                     :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric`; `False` if       :
:                                  : desired model behavior is to maximize the :
:                                  : value of `early_stopping_metric`. Default :
:                                  : is `True`.                                :
| `early_stopping_rounds`          | Sets a number of steps during which if    |
:                                  : the `early_stopping_metric` does not      :
:                                  : decrease (if                              :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize` is       :
:                                  : `True`) or increase (if                   :
:                                  : `early_stopping_metric_minimize` is       :
:                                  : `False`), training will be stopped. Default :
:                                  : is `None`, which means early stopping     :
:                                  : will never occur.                         :

The following revision to the `ValidationMonitor` constructor specifies that if
loss (`early_stopping_metric="loss"`) does not decrease
(`early_stopping_metric_minimize=True`) over a period of 200 steps
(`early_stopping_rounds=200`), model training will stop immediately at that
point, and not complete the full 2000 steps specified in `fit`:

```python
validation_monitor = tf.contrib.learn.monitors.ValidationMonitor(
    test_set.data,
    test_set.target,
    every_n_steps=50,
    metrics=validation_metrics,
    early_stopping_metric="loss",
    early_stopping_metric_minimize=True,
    early_stopping_rounds=200)
```

Rerun the code to see if model training stops early:

```none
...
INFO:tensorflow:Validation (step 1450): recall = 1.0, accuracy = 0.966667, global_step = 1431, precision = 1.0, loss = 0.0550445
INFO:tensorflow:Stopping. Best step: 1150 with loss = 0.0506100878119.
```

Indeed, here training stops at step 1450, indicating that for the past 200
steps, loss did not decrease, and that overall, step 1150 produced the smallest
loss value against the test data set. This suggests that additional calibration
of hyperparameters by decreasing the step count might further improve the model.

## Visualizing Log Data with TensorBoard

Reading through the log produced by `ValidationMonitor` provides plenty of raw
data on model performance during training, but it may also be helpful to see
visualizations of this data to get further insight into trends&mdash;for
example, how accuracy is changing over step count. You can use TensorBoard (a
separate program packaged with TensorFlow) to plot graphs like this by setting
the `logdir` command-line argument to the directory where you saved your model
training data (here, `/tmp/iris_model`). Run the following on your command line:

<pre><strong>$ tensorboard --logdir=/tmp/iris_model/</strong>
Starting TensorBoard 22 on port 6006
(You can navigate to http://0.0.0.0:6006)</pre>

Then load the provided URL (here, `http://0.0.0.0:6006`) in your browser. If you
click on the accuracy field, you'll see an image like the following, which shows
accuracy plotted against step count:

![Accuracy over step count in TensorBoard]
(../../images/validation_monitor_tensorboard_accuracy.png "Accuracy over step count in TensorBoard")

For more on using TensorBoard, see [TensorBoard: Visualizing Learning]
(../../how_tos/summaries_and_tensorboard/index.md)
and [TensorBoard: Graph Visualization](../../how_tos/graph_viz/index.md).
