tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.concat.md, before:

### `tf.concat(concat_dim, values, name='concat')` {#concat}

Concatenates tensors along one dimension.

Concatenates the list of tensors `values` along dimension `concat_dim`.  If
`values[i].shape = [D0, D1, ... Dconcat_dim(i), ...Dn]`, the concatenated
result has shape

    [D0, D1, ... Rconcat_dim, ...Dn]

where

    Rconcat_dim = sum(Dconcat_dim(i))

That is, the data from the input tensors is joined along the `concat_dim`
dimension.

The number of dimensions of the input tensors must match, and all dimensions
except `concat_dim` must be equal.

For example:

```python
t1 = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]
t2 = [[7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]]
tf.concat(0, [t1, t2]) ==> [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]]
tf.concat(1, [t1, t2]) ==> [[1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9], [4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12]]

# tensor t3 with shape [2, 3]
# tensor t4 with shape [2, 3]
tf.shape(tf.concat(0, [t3, t4])) ==> [4, 3]
tf.shape(tf.concat(1, [t3, t4])) ==> [2, 6]
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`concat_dim`</b>: 0-D `int32` `Tensor`.  Dimension along which to concatenate.
*  <b>`values`</b>: A list of `Tensor` objects or a single `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: A name for the operation (optional).

##### Returns:

  A `Tensor` resulting from concatenation of the input tensors.

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 126958138

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.concat.md, after:

### `tf.concat(concat_dim, values, name='concat')` {#concat}

Concatenates tensors along one dimension.

Concatenates the list of tensors `values` along dimension `concat_dim`.  If
`values[i].shape = [D0, D1, ... Dconcat_dim(i), ...Dn]`, the concatenated
result has shape

    [D0, D1, ... Rconcat_dim, ...Dn]

where

    Rconcat_dim = sum(Dconcat_dim(i))

That is, the data from the input tensors is joined along the `concat_dim`
dimension.

The number of dimensions of the input tensors must match, and all dimensions
except `concat_dim` must be equal.

For example:

```python
t1 = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6]]
t2 = [[7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]]
tf.concat(0, [t1, t2]) ==> [[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9], [10, 11, 12]]
tf.concat(1, [t1, t2]) ==> [[1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9], [4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12]]

# tensor t3 with shape [2, 3]
# tensor t4 with shape [2, 3]
tf.shape(tf.concat(0, [t3, t4])) ==> [4, 3]
tf.shape(tf.concat(1, [t3, t4])) ==> [2, 6]
```

Note: If you are concatenating along a new axis consider using pack.
E.g.
```python
tf.concat(axis, [tf.expand_dims(t, axis) for t in ts])
```
can be rewritten as
```
tf.pack(tensors, axis=axis)
```

##### Args:


*  <b>`concat_dim`</b>: 0-D `int32` `Tensor`.  Dimension along which to concatenate.
*  <b>`values`</b>: A list of `Tensor` objects or a single `Tensor`.
*  <b>`name`</b>: A name for the operation (optional).

##### Returns:

  A `Tensor` resulting from concatenation of the input tensors.
