tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.train.Coordinator.md, before:

A coordinator for threads.

This class implements a simple mechanism to coordinate the termination of a
set of threads.

#### Usage:

```python
# Create a coordinator.
coord = Coordinator()
# Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
...start thread N...(coord, ...)
# Wait for all the threads to terminate.
coord.join(threads)
```

Any of the threads can call `coord.request_stop()` to ask for all the threads
to stop.  To cooperate with the requests, each thread must check for
`coord.should_stop()` on a regular basis.  `coord.should_stop()` returns
`True` as soon as `coord.request_stop()` has been called.

A typical thread running with a coordinator will do something like:

```python
while not coord.should_stop():
  ...do some work...
```

#### Exception handling:

A thread can report an exception to the coordinator as part of the
`should_stop()` call.  The exception will be re-raised from the
`coord.join()` call.

Thread code:

```python
try:
  while not coord.should_stop():
    ...do some work...
except Exception as e:
  coord.request_stop(e)
```

Main code:

```python
try:
  ...
  coord = Coordinator()
  # Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
  ...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
  ...start thread N...(coord, ...)
  # Wait for all the threads to terminate.
  coord.join(threads)
except Exception as e:
  ...exception that was passed to coord.request_stop()
```

To simplify the thread implementation, the Coordinator provides a
context handler `stop_on_exception()` that automatically requests a stop if
an exception is raised.  Using the context handler the thread code above
can be written as:

```python
with coord.stop_on_exception():
  while not coord.should_stop():
    ...do some work...
```

#### Grace period for stopping:

After a thread has called `coord.request_stop()` the other threads have a
fixed time to stop, this is called the 'stop grace period' and defaults to 2
minutes.  If any of the threads is still alive after the grace period expires
`coord.join()` raises a RuntimeException reporting the laggards.

```python
try:
  ...
  coord = Coordinator()
  # Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
  ...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
  ...start thread N...(coord, ...)
  # Wait for all the threads to terminate, give them 10s grace period
  coord.join(threads, stop_grace_period_secs=10)
except RuntimeException:
  ...one of the threads took more than 10s to stop after request_stop()
  ...was called.
except Exception:
  ...exception that was passed to coord.request_stop()
```
- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.__init__()` {#Coordinator.__init__}

Create a new Coordinator.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.clear_stop()` {#Coordinator.clear_stop}

Clears the stop flag.

After this is called, calls to `should_stop()` will return `False`.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.join(threads, stop_grace_period_secs=120)` {#Coordinator.join}

Wait for threads to terminate.

Blocks until all `threads` have terminated or `request_stop()` is called.

After the threads stop, if an `exc_info` was passed to `request_stop`, that
exception is re-raised.

Grace period handling: When `request_stop()` is called, threads are given
'stop_grace_period_secs' seconds to terminate.  If any of them is still
alive after that period expires, a `RuntimeError` is raised.  Note that if
an `exc_info` was passed to `request_stop()` then it is raised instead of
that `RuntimeError`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`threads`</b>: List of `threading.Threads`. The started threads to join.
*  <b>`stop_grace_period_secs`</b>: Number of seconds given to threads to stop after
    `request_stop()` has been called.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`RuntimeError`</b>: If any thread is still alive after `request_stop()`
    is called and the grace period expires.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.request_stop(ex=None)` {#Coordinator.request_stop}

Request that the threads stop.

After this is called, calls to `should_stop()` will return `True`.

Note: If an exception is being passed in, in must be in the context of
handling the exception (i.e. `try: ... except Exception as ex: ...`) and not
a newly created one.

##### Args:


*  <b>`ex`</b>: Optional `Exception`, or Python `exc_info` tuple as returned by
    `sys.exc_info()`.  If this is the first call to `request_stop()` the
    corresponding exception is recorded and re-raised from `join()`.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.should_stop()` {#Coordinator.should_stop}

Check if stop was requested.

##### Returns:

  True if a stop was requested.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.stop_on_exception()` {#Coordinator.stop_on_exception}

Context manager to request stop when an Exception is raised.

Code that uses a coordinator must catch exceptions and pass
them to the `request_stop()` method to stop the other threads
managed by the coordinator.

This context handler simplifies the exception handling.
Use it as follows:

```python
with coord.stop_on_exception():
  # Any exception raised in the body of the with
  # clause is reported to the coordinator before terminating
  # the execution of the body.
  ...body...
```

This is completely equivalent to the slightly longer code:

```python
try:
  ...body...
exception Exception as ex:
  coord.request_stop(ex)
```

##### Yields:

  nothing.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.wait_for_stop(timeout=None)` {#Coordinator.wait_for_stop}

Wait till the Coordinator is told to stop.

##### Args:


*  <b>`timeout`</b>: Float.  Sleep for up to that many seconds waiting for
    should_stop() to become True.

##### Returns:

  True if the Coordinator is told stop, False if the timeout expired.

Commit message:

Update generated Python Op docs. Change: 126374388

tensorflow/g3doc/api_docs/python/functions_and_classes/shard6/tf.train.Coordinator.md, after:

A coordinator for threads.

This class implements a simple mechanism to coordinate the termination of a
set of threads.

#### Usage:

```python
# Create a coordinator.
coord = Coordinator()
# Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
...start thread N...(coord, ...)
# Wait for all the threads to terminate.
coord.join(threads)
```

Any of the threads can call `coord.request_stop()` to ask for all the threads
to stop.  To cooperate with the requests, each thread must check for
`coord.should_stop()` on a regular basis.  `coord.should_stop()` returns
`True` as soon as `coord.request_stop()` has been called.

A typical thread running with a coordinator will do something like:

```python
while not coord.should_stop():
  ...do some work...
```

#### Exception handling:

A thread can report an exception to the coordinator as part of the
`should_stop()` call.  The exception will be re-raised from the
`coord.join()` call.

Thread code:

```python
try:
  while not coord.should_stop():
    ...do some work...
except Exception as e:
  coord.request_stop(e)
```

Main code:

```python
try:
  ...
  coord = Coordinator()
  # Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
  ...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
  ...start thread N...(coord, ...)
  # Wait for all the threads to terminate.
  coord.join(threads)
except Exception as e:
  ...exception that was passed to coord.request_stop()
```

To simplify the thread implementation, the Coordinator provides a
context handler `stop_on_exception()` that automatically requests a stop if
an exception is raised.  Using the context handler the thread code above
can be written as:

```python
with coord.stop_on_exception():
  while not coord.should_stop():
    ...do some work...
```

#### Grace period for stopping:

After a thread has called `coord.request_stop()` the other threads have a
fixed time to stop, this is called the 'stop grace period' and defaults to 2
minutes.  If any of the threads is still alive after the grace period expires
`coord.join()` raises a RuntimeException reporting the laggards.

```python
try:
  ...
  coord = Coordinator()
  # Start a number of threads, passing the coordinator to each of them.
  ...start thread 1...(coord, ...)
  ...start thread N...(coord, ...)
  # Wait for all the threads to terminate, give them 10s grace period
  coord.join(threads, stop_grace_period_secs=10)
except RuntimeException:
  ...one of the threads took more than 10s to stop after request_stop()
  ...was called.
except Exception:
  ...exception that was passed to coord.request_stop()
```
- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.__init__(clean_stop_exception_types=None)` {#Coordinator.__init__}

Create a new Coordinator.

##### Args:


*  <b>`clean_stop_exception_types`</b>: Optional tuple of Exception types that should
    cause a clean stop of the coordinator. If an exception of one of these
    types is reported to `request_stop(ex)` the coordinator will behave as
    if `request_stop(None)` was called.  Defaults to
    `(tf.errors.OutOfRangeError,)` which is used by input queues to signal
    the end of input. When feeding training data from a Python iterator it
    is common to add `StopIteration` to this list.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.clear_stop()` {#Coordinator.clear_stop}

Clears the stop flag.

After this is called, calls to `should_stop()` will return `False`.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.join(threads, stop_grace_period_secs=120)` {#Coordinator.join}

Wait for threads to terminate.

Blocks until all `threads` have terminated or `request_stop()` is called.

After the threads stop, if an `exc_info` was passed to `request_stop`, that
exception is re-raised.

Grace period handling: When `request_stop()` is called, threads are given
'stop_grace_period_secs' seconds to terminate.  If any of them is still
alive after that period expires, a `RuntimeError` is raised.  Note that if
an `exc_info` was passed to `request_stop()` then it is raised instead of
that `RuntimeError`.

##### Args:


*  <b>`threads`</b>: List of `threading.Threads`. The started threads to join.
*  <b>`stop_grace_period_secs`</b>: Number of seconds given to threads to stop after
    `request_stop()` has been called.

##### Raises:


*  <b>`RuntimeError`</b>: If any thread is still alive after `request_stop()`
    is called and the grace period expires.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.request_stop(ex=None)` {#Coordinator.request_stop}

Request that the threads stop.

After this is called, calls to `should_stop()` will return `True`.

Note: If an exception is being passed in, in must be in the context of
handling the exception (i.e. `try: ... except Exception as ex: ...`) and not
a newly created one.

##### Args:


*  <b>`ex`</b>: Optional `Exception`, or Python `exc_info` tuple as returned by
    `sys.exc_info()`.  If this is the first call to `request_stop()` the
    corresponding exception is recorded and re-raised from `join()`.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.should_stop()` {#Coordinator.should_stop}

Check if stop was requested.

##### Returns:

  True if a stop was requested.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.stop_on_exception()` {#Coordinator.stop_on_exception}

Context manager to request stop when an Exception is raised.

Code that uses a coordinator must catch exceptions and pass
them to the `request_stop()` method to stop the other threads
managed by the coordinator.

This context handler simplifies the exception handling.
Use it as follows:

```python
with coord.stop_on_exception():
  # Any exception raised in the body of the with
  # clause is reported to the coordinator before terminating
  # the execution of the body.
  ...body...
```

This is completely equivalent to the slightly longer code:

```python
try:
  ...body...
exception Exception as ex:
  coord.request_stop(ex)
```

##### Yields:

  nothing.


- - -

#### `tf.train.Coordinator.wait_for_stop(timeout=None)` {#Coordinator.wait_for_stop}

Wait till the Coordinator is told to stop.

##### Args:


*  <b>`timeout`</b>: Float.  Sleep for up to that many seconds waiting for
    should_stop() to become True.

##### Returns:

  True if the Coordinator is told stop, False if the timeout expired.
